With that I got a simple
starting project for you.
Here you'll find it attached to this lecture.
There, we got a packaged up json file,
where I simply installed express.
We've got the app.js file
where I'm importing express,
where I'm also importing the core file system module
that's part of node.js,
and where I then create a very simple express application
that does just one thing.
For incoming get requests
it reads this my page HTML file,
which contains some HTML code
and it returns the content read in from that file
with the sent method back to the client.
So if we now run this application by running the app.js file
and we visit localhost 3000,
we'll see the content often as HTML file on the screen.
Definitely not a very fancy application,
but it's not about the content here or the application.
It's about those new features,
which I want to show you,
and let's start with the ES modules feature.
Here we are using the import syntax you're used to.
We're importing with the require function.
Now, let's also quickly see how we export it, thus far.
If I would create a new file here,
response-handler.js, for example,
and I take this function here
and cut it out of the app.js file
and define it in there,
resHandler equals this anonymous arrow function here.
I could export it with module exports
pointing at resHandler
or storing resHandler to be precise.
And I'll back it app.js.
I can import my file, the resHandler here
with require and then dot slash response-handler
omitting the file extension.
We should now also bring the file system import
over to the response-handler.js file by the way,
because I'm using default system in there.
But that's how we could restructure this
to also export something on our own.
Now, of course, we just need to register
the response-handler function here
on the get middleware.
Now that's the import
and export syntax you are used to
that what we used many times throughout the course
and of course this works
if we restart the server,
we can still load this page.
Now, how can we switch to the more modern
or this alternative new syntax?
Well, let's have a look at the official docs.
There's one important thing I wanna
draw your attention to though.
You see the stability is experimental
at least at the point of time I'm recording this.
This means that the exact implementation could change.
It also means that you should reconsider
whether you want to use this in production or no.
That is the reason why
the vast majority of projects
don't use the syntax.
You can use a dope, it should work
and it is definitely worth a closer look
because you'll see pretty much
the same import export syntax
on the client side in the browser
if you were building applications for debt,
hence whatever you learn here
will also be useful for browser side JavaScript code.
Or if you already learned about ES module there,
it'll be easy to get started
with them in node projects.
Now, how do we get started?
To get started we first of all need
to enable this syntax
and there, we got two main ways.
We've got three ways,
but we can ignore the third one for now.
One way of using these imports
is that we rename our files
from dot js to dot mjs,
where the m stands for a module.
We could do this
and if I renamed us here,
I can now import it with this new syntax,
but I'll not use this approach.
So let's revert this back.
Instead the second alternative is
that we keep dot js as a file extension,
which I'd like to do here
and instead in the nearest package dot json file,
we should make sure that the type property
or the type configuration is set to module.
So if we dive into our packaged dot json file here,
we see that there is no type.
It's not this type here by the way.
We can remove does actually
there should be a main type node
or property here instead,
and there is no such property.
So let's add type here
and set this to module.
Like this.
With this, we can now use ES module imports.
Now in app.js,
let's start with importing express.
If we want to import express now
this syntax here,
which I'm going to comment out,
changes to import express
from express like this.
That's the ES module Syntax for importing something.
If I saved this
and then I'll run this file again,
you'll see it crashes
it crashes because I'm still using require
on that other import here.
Now, since I set my type two module,
we have to use the new import export syntax everywhere.
So here, I'm also going to comment this out
and now I want to import resHandler
from dot slash response-handler.
This would not work however,
because we're using the wrong export syntax.
If I now save this and rerun,
you'll see it runs with an error.
We need to go to the file
and change the way we export.
Instead of exporting with module exports
we now use the export keyword,
which exists in modern JavaScript,
and we export it to response-handler.
However, we can't use it like this.
Instead, we now either
have to add it a right in the line
where we define the function
or the variable which we want to export or
we use exports default.
So this variation of the export down there.
Now I'm going to use export default here
because otherwise this import wouldn't work here.
If you use the other approach
this import wouldn't work here
and I'll come back to the other approach
in a second though.
With that, however,
with the default export here
and the change to import here,
if we now restart this,
it still fails
and the reason for that it's the extension.
Now here, we do have to add it.
We do have to add dot js here,
not for third party modules,
but for our own files,
we have to add it.
So here I add dot js.
and now if a restart this,
I get another error.
The require import in response-handler,
of course, this doesn't work anymore.
We also need to replace this
and import fs from fs like that.
With that now is saved.
If I now started, now it works.
We get no error
and we can now visit this page again.
So this is now simply an alternative
and it's up to you,
whether you prefer this,
it is however the import-exports index,
you know, from the browser
and that alone might make it a bit more attractive.
Nonetheless, as I mentioned,
switching is not mandatory, it's optional.
I also mentioned another exports syntax.
Now that other syntax looks like this.
If we have multiple things
that we want to export,
we can't use export default
because that is only usable once per file.
So if you got only one thing you want to export,
you can use it.
If you've got multiple things,
you can't use it.
A little bit like module exports,
we can also only use this once
and if you have multiple things,
we need this exports dot syntax if you remember.
Here it's the same,
we can export one thing with a default,
but we can always export one
but all the multiple things
by adding export right into line
where we define the variable or constant
that we want to export.
Now, when we use this approach however,
when we don't use default,
we have to change our import syntax.
Instead of importing like this,
we now have to remove this name here
and use curly braces instead,
and between those curly braces,
you repeat the name of the constant
or variable or whatever it is,
which you want to import.
So in this case,
because I named it the resHandler here,
I now do use resHandler here.
With the default export,
the name was actually up to you.
You could have also just named deresh
or whatever you like.
With a named export,
so where you have the export keyword right in the line
where you define a constant or variable,
the name is no longer up to you.
Now you need to curly braces
and you need to use the exact name
of what was exported then.
With that, however it again works.
And as you can tell,
the third party libraries we're using here,
express and the core fs module.
Those seem to use default exports under the hood.
Otherwise this way of importing wouldn't work.
If we now reload it, of course still works.
So that's simply an alternative syntax
for exporting and importing
and in your files,
it's of course totally up to you,
which syntax you prefer.